NAME: Yun Xu
EMAIL: x_one_u@yahoo.com
ID: 304635157

README:
	This README file contains identification information, description of the 
	files included in the tarball (lab4b, Makefile, README), as well as citation 
	of resources that I used to help me implement the program.

lab4b.c:
	This file contains the C source module for an embedded application that builds
	and runs on an Edison. Its executable reads the temperature from the temperature
	sensor and gets the local time. In default mode, configure rate is 1/sec, scale 
	is in Fahrenheit, and no logging. For more options, the executable of this file
	contains 3 options:
	--period=#: sets the configure rate (how long to wait until the next output)
	--scale=C/F: sets the temperature scale (either Celcius or Fahrenheit)
	--log=filename: appends the report to a logfile named filename if this enabled.
	The push-button on Digital input 3 can terminates the program and output time with
	SHUTDOWN if pressed.
	When the application is reading temperature and outputting the local time with 
	temperature, it also waits and reads input command from stdin. Available commands
	include:
	OFF: terminates the program and output to studout (and log) like pressing the 
		button.
	STOP: the program stops generating reports, but continue processing input 
		commands. 
	START: If the program was stopped, cause the program to resume generating 
		reports. 
	SCALE=F: cause reports to be generated in degrees Fahrenheit
	SCALE=C: cause reports to be generated in degrees Celcius
	PERIOD=seconds: change the number of seconds between reproting intervals to
		seconds.
	All these commands will also be logged to the logfile.

Makefile:
	This is a makefile to build the program and the tarball.
	default:
		default target which builds the program
	check: 
		execute an automated smoke-test of my application to see if it runs
		and can talk to its sensors.
	clean: 
		removes all makefile-generated programs and output
	dist: 
		create the deliverable tarball